{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue221;
}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 De: 
\f1\b0 \cf3 Cristina <crisgarcia@ebd.csic.es>\

\f0\b \cf2 Fecha: 
\f1\b0 \cf3 4 de julio de 2005 18:27:46 GMT+02:00\

\f0\b \cf2 Para: 
\f1\b0 \cf3 "ecoflor@listas.uvigo.es" <ecoflor@listas.uvigo.es>, Pedro Jordano <jordano@ebd.csic.es>, Jos\'8e Godoy <godoy@ebd.csic.es>, "juste@ebd.csic.es" <juste@ebd.csic.es>, Miguel Alcaide <malcaide@ebd.csic.es>, Joaquin Garcia <quini@ebd.csic.es>\

\f0\b \cf2 Asunto: \cf3 [ecoflor] Fwd: Other: SSR parentage analysis software replies\
\cf2 Responder a: 
\f1\b0 \cf3 Lista de correo do Grupo de Traballo sobre Ecolog=E Da y Evoluci\'97n Floral (ECOFLOR) <ecoflor@listas.uvigo.es>\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf3 \
\
\
Inicio mensaje reenviado:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li200\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf4 De: evoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca\
Fecha: s\'87b. 2 juli, 2005  07:23:27 Europe/Madrid\
Para: crisgarcia@ebd.csic.es\
Asunto: Other: SSR parentage analysis software replies\
Responder a: brian@helix.biology.mcmaster.ca\
Return-Path: <evoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca>\
Received: from limonero.csic.es (limonero.csic.es [161.111.100.6]) by ebd03.ebd.csic.es (8.11.0/8.11.0) with ESMTP id j625NSL03231 for <crisgarcia@ebd.csic.es>; Sat, 2 Jul 2005 07:23:28 +0200\
Received: from limonero.csic.es (limonero.csic.es [127.0.0.1]) by localhost.csic.es (Postfix) with ESMTP id 52211E045C for <crisgarcia@ebd.csic.es>; Sat,  2 Jul 2005 07:23:29 +0200 (CEST)\
Received: from sigma957.cis.mcmaster.ca (sigma957.CIS.McMaster.CA  [130.113.64.83])by limonero.csic.es (Postfix) with ESMTP id E1AB6E0383for  <crisgarcia@ebd.csic.es>; Sat,  2 Jul 2005 07:23:28 +0200 (CEST)\
Received: from evol.biology.mcmaster.ca (evol.Biology.McMaster.CA  [130.113.246.218])by sigma957.cis.mcmaster.ca (8.12.11/8.12.11) with ESMTP  id j625NRLh029147for <crisgarcia@ebd.csic.es>; Sat, 2 Jul 2005 01:23:27  -0400 (EDT)\
Received: by evol.biology.mcmaster.ca (Postfix, from userid 10048)id  8E63968577; Sat,  2 Jul 2005 01:23:27 -0400 (EDT)\
Message-Id: <20050702052327.8E63968577@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca>\
X-Pmx-Version-Mac: 4.7.1.128075, Antispam-Engine: 2.0.3.2, Antispam-Data:  2005.7.1.41\
X-Perlmx-Spam: Gauge=IIIIIII, Probability=7%, Report='NO_REAL_NAME 0,  __C230066_P1_5 0, __HAS_MSGID 0, __KNOWN_SPAMMER_ADDRESS_5 0,  __MIME_TEXT_ONLY 0, __SANE_MSGID 0'\
X-Spam-Flag: NO\
X-Imss-Version: 2.8\
X-Imss-Result: Passed\
X-Imss-Scores: Clean:99.90000 C:7 M:0 S:5 R:5\
X-Imss-Settings: Baseline:3 C:1 M:1 S:1 R:1 (0.5000 0.5000)\
\
\
Dear Colleagues, thank you very much for the suggestions, some\
of which are especially useful. I am copying here the replies\
I received to the question I posted about 10 days ago: QUESTION\
Dear Colleagues,could anyone mention existing softwares for parentage\
analysis that take into account microsatellite size also accounting for\
possible mistyping errors? I would like to use a method that can assign\
a higher probability of identity to alleles with very similar size,\
not a merely qualitative assignment.I will be thankful for your help\
Daniela SalviniPhD student Center for Forest and Landscape (Arboretum)\
Royal Veterinary and Agricultural University H\'bfrsholm Kongevej 11 2970\
H\'bfrsholm DENMARKTel.: 0045 35281639 Fax.: 0045 3528 1511 dsa@kvl.dk\
\
*****REPLIES****\
\
Daniela, Have you tried using the software program CERVUS? I don't\
know exaclty off the top of my head where it is available online, but\
I do know it is available as freeware via the internet. Our lab has\
had good success using this program conducting parentage assignments\
for salmonids (i.e., Chinook).  Cheers - Cory  Cory BettlesFisheries\
BiologistConservation Biology UnitScience Division/Fish ProgramWashington\
Dept. Fish & Wildlife600 Capitol Way N. Olympia, WA  98501-1091Ph:\
(360) 902-2801Fax: (360) 902-2944Email: bettlcmb@dfw.wa.gov\
\
Brian, She can download PROBMAX from the following site\
of Dr. Danzmann at Univ. ofGuelph. That might serve her\
perupose. http://www.uoguelph.ca/~rdanzman/software/PROBMAX/  Cheers!Amit\
\
Hi Daniela, I don't know of any method that takes into account allele\
size similarity, but I like the program PARENTE, which does take into\
account error rates in microsatellite typing.   Hope that helps,\
Devon  http://jhered.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/content/full/93/6/458\
\
Good morningTry PROBMAX by Roy Danzmann out of the University of Guelph,\
Canadaor CERVUS is good as well out of the University of Edinburgh,\
UKas well see if you can get KINSHIP by Christophe Herbinger out of\
Dalhousie University, Canada. KINSHIP works well but last I heard\
wasn't publicly available yet ... maybe it is now? PeaceDarrin\
\
Dear Daniela, I would recommend the software "Parente" available\
at http://www2.ujf-grenoble.fr/leca/membres/manel.html I join here\
the computer note which describes this program. You can allow a\
number of allelic incompatibilities in the parentage analysis, to\
account for genotyping errors.Hope you will find it useful,Best Eva\
\
Hi Daniela, I assume you mean taking allele size into account only where\
there is a mismatch (i.e. in the treatment of mutation/scoring error). If\
so I think that the best publicly available package is probably Papa\
(Duchesne et al. 2002. Molecular Ecology Notes, 2, 191-193). It  should do\
what you want and has different options for how to treat error/mismatch.\
Of course using a model like that for errors assumes that the most\
common type of problem is that you mis-score an allele by one repeat\
unit. This may be the case e.g. if you are using dinucleotides with a lot\
of stutter, but sometimes the biggest source of scoring error might be\
different (e.g. allelic drop-out). Also, while mutation may follow an SMM\
(or may not...) it's very unlikely to be a major contributor to false\
exclusions over a single generation. Alastair J Wilson PhDPostdoctoral\
Research Fellow  Alastair.Wilson@ed.ac.uk  tel. 0131 6507287 Institute\
of Evolutionary BiologySchool of Biological SciencesThe University of\
EdinburghAshworth LaboratoriesThe King's BuildingsWest Mains RoadEdinburgh\
EH9 3JT, UK\
\
Dear Daniela, Currently, PaPa (Package for the Analysis\
of Parental Allocation) is the only program taking in\
consideration microsatellite size and typing errors\
by the parameters e and S. You can download the program\
fromhttp://www.bio.ulaval.ca/louisbernatchez/downloads.htm  BestDirk\
\
Dear Daniela, Jones et Ardren (2003) published an interesting paper\
about software that could be used in case of parentage analysis.It will\
be a long story to describe all the methods, this paper summarizes it\
very well.I've been using PAPA (package for the analysis of parental\
allocation) for the parentage analysis. PAPA performs parental allocation\
based on breeding likelihood methods, and comprises simulators that\
allow statistical assessments of allocation accuracy (including\
transmission error).Furthermore, this software is user-friendly. Best\
wishes, nicolas   Jones A.G., Ardren W.R. : Methods of parentage\
analysis in natural populations. Molecular Ecology, 12, 2511-2523, 2003.\
<http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/louisbernatchez/files/PAPA_2.0_USER.zip>http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/louisbernatchez/files/PAPA_2.0_USER.zip\
PAPA (package for the analysis of parental allocation): a\
computer program for simulated and real parental allocationPierre\
Duchesne, Marie-H\'8el\'8fne Godbout, Louis BernatchezMolecular\
Ecology NotesVolume 2, Issue 2, Page 191-193, Jun 2002\
\
\
Nicolas Taris\
(PhD student)Laboratoire IFREMER de Genetique et Pathologie17390 La\
Tremblade - FRANCEtel (switchboard) : +33 (0)5 46 76 26 10tel (direct\
line) : +33 (0)5 46 76 26 30fax               : +33 (0)5 46 76 26\
11email: nicolas.taris@ifremer.fr http://www.ifremer.fr/latremblade\
\
Daniela Salvini <dsa@kvl.dk>\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf3 \
\
_______________________________________________\
\
Lista de distribucion de correo ecoflor (ecoflor@listas.uvigo.es)\
Informacion do servicio de correo: http://si.uvigo.es/sistemas/correo\
Administrador do servicio: admon-listas@uvigo.es\
https://listas.uvigo.es/mailman/listinfo/ecoflor\
\
}